project type: cultural pavillion

GFA: 250 m²

materials: steel structure with a skin of Hylite aluminium composite panels

building costs: undisclosed

Project description:

The Web of North Holland 2002 - 2006 / iWeb 2006 - 2014

The province of north holland manifested itself on the Floriade 2002 with an exceptional pavilion. In the Web of north holland  visitors, the architecture of the pavilion and the multimedia presentation representing the province of north holland intertwine into a non-linear interactive game. 

Interactive interior space
Visitors play the building, the form and the shape of the presentation by walking around freely in the five brightly colored sectors of the presentation space (the pentagon). Every sector represents a specific aspect of the province of north holland. 

One Building, One Detail
The presentation space is nesting itself in the tightly streamlined body of the pavilion. The outer skin of the Web of north holland consists of triangles made of a composite material: Hylite. The triangles are fixed to a spatial triangulated steel structure which describes the shape of the pavilion. All structural elements are unique in size and shape and produced using CNC [computer numerical controlled] production techniques. The design is supported by a parametric 3d model. Both skin and structure are derived from this 3d model using scripted procedures. An Autolisp routine "unfolds" the 3d model as to generate the path for the plasma cutter.

iWeb 2006 - 2014
After functioning as a host for the interactive Noord Holland propaganda the pavilion was dismantled and reassembled in Delft. It was prepared for a second life on a location at the campus of the Delft University of Technology. Rebranded the iWeb it served as the interactive design laboratory Protospace for the Faculty of Architecture. 

end of life and donation to the public domain
The building lost its function as laboratory after a blaze destroyed the Faculty of Architecture in 2009 and cut off the life lines to the iWeb. In september 2014 the structure was demolished and all available material was donated to the public domain under the Creative Commons license. 